All righty.
So as I mentioned in the previous video this section is a big turning point and hopefully you're excited
about it.
I'm excited to teach it.
We're going to go from what we've been doing for the last 12 13 ish hours of content basically working
with my ask you all on its own querying a database and getting a result printed back to us immediately
which is great but we're going to go from that to creating applications with my eyes.
Q Well we're not going to you know learn how to create complex video games or crazy iOS apps.
We're focusing mainly on web applications but the ideas are the same.
I'm going to show you how you get an external language like javascript or ph or Ruby to talk to my ask
you.
And we'll build a couple of things with that.
Now let's quickly review what we've done.
Not the entire course but the way we've been working and talked about the merits of that.
So we've been working with the CLIA mainly you know having a database of users or books or whatever
it is and asking questions you know selecting sales data or orders data or customers and trying to figure
things out like you know how much did we sell last week or what day of the week was our best selling
day across the last two years.
Those are really important and valid and just common uses of my.
Q So there is this whole subset of creating applications that we're diving into now but there are tons
and tons of jobs lots of people who when they work with my as well all that they do not to diminish
it in any way because they can write some pretty complex queries but they're working with only my Escudo
and they're opening up the Seelye or the writing as well.
Files like we've seen and they're just saving and running those files.
So they want to see OK you know what was my commission that I made in the last year calculating tax
whatever information.
You know some are summing a bunch of information in these tables or doing a complex joined to figure
out which promotion work the best.
Those are really important and common uses that people do all the time.
So it's not just about building applications but we've seen that first part we've seen how to do that.
We've worked with tables.
We've been writing lots of selects inserts updates deletes all of that.
Now we're going to see how we work with other languages.
So now it's time for my as well plus any of these.
Pick one.
And the reason I'm even showing you this page is not to intimidate you not to make you think you need
to know all of these you only need one.
So depending on what you're doing there are strengths and disadvantages to certain languages.
But really all of these will work.
They all have ways of communicating with my as well.
So if you're someone who is comfortable with language like if you grew up working with Java or you took
a python class in college or whatever it is you can find ways.
I'll I'll talk about what they are of connecting my ask you out and whatever language you're comfortable
with the one we're going to work with is called node No.
It's getting very very popular it's been pretty popular for the last couple of years.
Very versatile language lots and lots of users great documentation out there.
Now we could have also gone with Ph.
So you may be wondering about that Ph.D. in my ask you historically have been a bit of an item a couple
that are up or were spotted together all the time in the next video.
I will talk a bit about Ph.
It's totally optional but I didn't want to bog down in this video with it but there are a lot of opinions
out there.
I'll give you a 10 second preview.
A lot of people think ph is dying.
It's certainly in decline compared to where it used to be.
It used to be the king of programming languages on the web.
Now there are lots of competitors and people are leaving BHP.
That doesn't mean that it's a bad language.
There are problems with it.
This is you know my opinion as well.
There are problems that other languages have been able to solve better.
However there's a big user base out there.
Yes it's not growing as fast every year but there are still millions of people using it.
So do not shy away from THP if you're comfortable with it.
If you want to use it there's lots of examples out there.
But I didn't want to make this course just another ph in my ask you of course there are dozens.
They're getting dated but there are dozens of them even on you to me lots of my s q on ph.
P So I chose node and we'll talk more about why in this optional video coming up.
Basically javascript is the most popular programming language for the Web right now and node uses Javascript
syntax and just generally node is a great choice.
I could have gone with any of these although I probably wouldn't have done any of the C languages but
Ruby or Python would have been equally good choices.
However I went with Knode because honestly that's what people want to learn right now.
And it's what a lot of the jobs out there are for.
OK so that I'll say about that for now.
Like I said any of these will work.
The next thing I want to talk about is how do they work.
What do they do.
So we pick a language we're working with node but then what.
What's the point of you know using a program programming language.
How does it talk to my s.
Q Well through external code and what kinds of things would you do.
So here's a little diagram.
Imagine that there's a web application.
My computer when I go to this is hypothetical Amazon.com I hit enter a request is made and I labeled
this has no J.
Amazon does have some node in their stack.
But this could be any language so that doesn't matter.
But I send a request Hey Amazon can you give me your home page.
Can you give me my personal profile page.
I want to update my e-mail address.
How about that.
And then the code whatever it's written in is going to talk to my as well.
So when you say hey may I ask you this user with the user with the e-mail of Coles at gmail dot com
is trying to get his profile page.
I want to select all information related to you or you know.
So like everything from users where e-mail is Kolta Gee Medcom that query is run.
So from node or whatever this is here to my as well.
And the result comes back and it could be I'm sorry there's no users table I don't know what the heck
you're talking about node.
Or it could be.
OK here's that five items in that row about cold.
And then that comes back.
So that's kind of this two way street.
And then whatever the programming language is here is then going to compile whatever sent to me.
So the Amazon homepage.
So it's going to take all those results and it's going to build a web page for me and send it back.
Now this is not a course in web development.
I have another video where we talk about what this course is and isn't and how I'm going to go about
covering things like H.M.S. assess I'm going to cover them but not a ton of detail because that would
could take hours.
I have a 45 hour course on that content.
So this is really more focused on the my ass.
Q Well part of things which make sense it's in my ask you of course.
Okay so with that said oh I missed the last arrow.
Something is sent back to a computer.
So it's this cycle where there's kind of three entities.
There's a device over here my computer.
It could be an iPhone or Android phone could be.
I don't know.
It could be a smoke detector.
It could be a nest camera if you have ever seen cameras or any like web based security camera.
They don't.
I'm not saying they work with node in my as well but there's some database somewhere storing information
and there's some app somewhere running that is listening that's getting video sent back or updates from
a smoke alarm.
Or could be a virtual reality headset it could be anything really any sort of device another computer
or a phone or something else.
And then this here.
Like I said doesn't have to be node.
That's what we're working with.
But you could easily replace that with another language THP or Ruby.
And then yes you could have a different database but that's what this course is about.
But you could have a virtual reality headset that's working with Ruby although that's a great game development
environment.
Maybe you're working with unity and you're writing Java or something but then you're working with another
database.
It could be anything.
Mangu D-B postgresql or my ask.
Well the core idea is the same.
OK.
So there's a lot of talking.
Like I said there's an optional video coming up about THP versus node and other languages.
It's mainly my opinions but there is some interesting data to take a look at.
If you're curious about how I came to the conclusion I came to spend a lot of time thinking about how
to teach this and what I'd like to do is add kind of alternate versions of what we're going to build
here and build a ruby version so you can see it and then build a Ph version and build a Java version
so you can compare it.
But that will come later.
This is you know I made a decision and it's an informed decision and I'll explain why.
If you're curious the next video.
And then after that or you can skip right to the next video which is going to be introducing the project
we're going to build.